1. Intro
	Good moorning/afternoon
	High or Low? Rent in NYC

	I have lived in NYC for over 8 years and I find that one of the hardest things you will have to do is moving into a new apartment.
	
	Whether it be asking your friends to take time off work to help you move, or not being able to find parking spot for your uHaul; the whole things is a hassle
	
	In addition, you will quickly find that much of your income will dissapear with the rent check every month
	
	Thats brings upon the question: 
	
	How do you determine whether or not an apartment listing is a good deal, in order to maxmize your "Bang for Buck"?
	
	To simplify, what are the some factors that influence the price of rent?
	
	These are two questions that I sought in answer in my quest for NYC real estate knowledge.



2. Methodology
	
	

	First, I needed to collect the data. 
	
	I decided to get my data from zillow, making two searches, one for manhattan and one for brooklyn 
	
	After cleaning the data, I was able to get 1034 listings, 527 for Manhattan and 507 for Brooklyn, which is a pretty even distribution of listing between the two boroughs

	

	Of those listings, I derived the following variables in terms of what the apartment had to offer: 

	Rent    Bedrooms    Bathrooms    Laundry    Cooling    Heating    Pets    Parking     Neighborhood.

	With the exception of Rent, Bedrooms, and Bathrooms, all my other variables were categorical and take on a value of either 0 or 1

	With a cleaned dataset, I began running different OLS, Ridge, and Lasso models to evaluate the significance of my observed variables



3. Results
	
	To start, I ran a OLS model on the entire dataset using rent as my dependent variable and the rest as my features.
	
	The R^2 score was decent (0.69); in other words, the model is able to describe about 70% of variance in the data
	
	Furthermore, many of my variables were stasticially significant, the following are the features with p-values lower than 0.05
	
	
	
	I then ran Lasso and Ridge Cross Validation to regularize my model.
	
	I ended chosing Ridge CV due to a slightly higher R^2

	In order to determine which features impacted the model most, I organized the coefficents into 2 buckets: the top 10 and bottom 10

	

	As we can see, location and number of bathrooms impact rental price the most

	for example Soho in Manhattan would have the largest increase and New Utretcht would have the largest decrease in the model.

	We can see a inverse relationship between distance from popular areas of the city and rental price

	
	
	For reference, here is where Soho is, and here is where New Utretcht

	

	Following neighborhood in significance in the number of bathrooms  

	Now, I wanted to see why bathrooms had such a large effect compared to bedrooms (which I thought would've had a larger coefficient) 

	Looking at the histograms of bedrooms and bathroom, we can see that as number of bedrooms increase, the number of bathrooms do not increase by the same amount.

	

	To further highlight this point, i plotted the scatter plot of each with respect to rental price

	We can see that most apartments have fewer than 2.5 bathrooms, meaning any increase beyond that is rare

	I then noticed that there were several outliers in terms of number of bathrooms

	Curious, I wanted to look in particular at the apartment with 4.5 bathrooms


	Sooo what does our outlier look like?



	As you can see, this is an incredible apartment in an incredible area...its also got marble everywhere!

	Thus I concluded that I was not modeling many features that came with this apartment, 

	which caused a huge increase in price that was attributed to the unique 4.5 bathroom factor


4. Conclusion

	In conclusion, according to this model, the primary focus is to look at the neighborhood the apartment is listed in. 

	Intuitivly, it reinforces the idea that popular areas of NYC are in greater demand for housing, highlighted by the lower rents in unpopular areas

	Furthermore, this makes sense as space is limited in NYC and the variation of apartment sizes is not as great than say, a city in Texas, 


	Followed by neighborhood is the number of bathrooms

	This is due to the fact that a unit increase of one bathroom (in particular after 2 bathrooms) 

	represents a substantial change in the quality of the apartment, and ergo the rental price 

	So how do we determine a good deal? Well if you see an apartment in Soho for the price of an apartment in New Utrecht, hop on it!

######

5. Next Steps

	In terms of the next steps

	Obtain complete set of Zillow dataset; I was limited 

	Get greater detail of variables

		like the listing for $19.5K a month, there a variables that i am not capturing such as marble countertops

	Determine if there are any trends rental prices

	Perhaps luxury homes are critiqued on a different level than say a one bedroom apartment in New Utretct

	and may need to be modeled differently